A VERY SHORT STORY 

One hot evening in Padua they carried him up on to the roof 
and he could look out over the top of the town. There were 
chimney swifts in the sky. After a while it got dark and the 
searchlights came out. The others went down and took the 
bottles with them. He and Luz could hear them below on 
the balcony. Luz sat on the bed. She was cool and fresh in 
the hot night. 

Luz stayed on night duty for three months. They were 
glad to let her. When they operated on him she prepared 
him for the operating table; and they had a joke about friend 
or enema. He went under the anaesthetic holding tight on to 
himself so he would not blab about anything during the silly, 
talky time. After he got on crutches he used to take the 
temperatures so Luz would not have to get up from the bed. 
There were only a few patients, and they all knew about it. 
They all liked Luz. As he walked back along the halls he 
thought of Luz in his bed. 

Before he went back to the front they went into the Duomo 
and prayed. It was dim and quiet, and there were other 
beople praying. They wanted to get married, but there was 
not enough time for the banns, and neither of them had birth 
certificates. They felt as though they were married, but they 
wanted everyone to know about it, and to make it so they 
could not lose it. 

Luz wrote him many letters that he never got until after 
the armistice. Fifteen came in a bunch to the front and he 
sorted them by the dates and read them all straight through. 
They were all about the hospital, and how much she loved 
him and how it was impossible to get along without him and 
how terrible it was missing him at night. 

After the armistice they agreed he should go home to get a 
job so they might be married. Luz would not come home 
until he had a good job and could come to New York to meet 
her. It was understood he would not drink, and he did not 
want to see his friends or anyone in the States. Only to get 
a job and be married. On the train from Padua to Milan 
they quarrelled about her not being willing to come home at 
once. When they had to say good-bye, in the station at Milan, 
they kissed good-bye, but were not finished with the quarrel. 
He felt sick about saying good-bye like that. 

He went to America on a boat from Genoa. Luz went back 
to Pordonone to open a hospital. It was lonely and rainy 
there and there was a battalion of arditi quartered in the 
town. Living in the muddy, rainy town in the winter, the 
major of the battalion made love to Luz, and she had never 
known Italians before, and finally wrote to the States that 
theirs had been only a boy and girl affair. She was sorry, 
and she knew he would probably not be able to understand, 
but might some day forgive her, and be grateful to her, and 
she expected, absolutely unexpectedly, to be married in the 
spring. She loved him as always, but she realized now it was 
only a boy and girl love. She hoped he would have a great 
career, and believed in him absolutely. She knew it was for 
the best. 

The major did not marry her in the spring, or any other 
time. Luz never got an answer to the letter to Chicago about 
it. A short time after he contracted gonorrhoea from a sales 
girl in a loop department store while riding in a taxicab 
through Lincoln Park. 

While the bombardment was knocking the trench to pieces at Fossalta, 
he lay very flat and sweated and prayed oh Jesus Christ get me out of 
here. Dear Jesus please get me out. Christ please please please Christ. If 
you'll only keep me from getting killed I'll do anything you say. I 
believe in you and I'll tell everyone in the world that you are the only 
one that matters. Please please dear Jesus. The shelling moved farther up 
the line. We went to work on the trench and in the morning the sun came 
up and the day was hot and muggy and cheerful and quiet. The next 
night back at Mestre he did not tell the girl he went upstairs with at 
the Villa Rossa about Jesus. And he never told anybody. 
